# Test client for ACP SDK client

## Usage

Usage: cli [OPTIONS] TEST_INPUT_FILENAME

Options:

    --async / --no-async            Use the async API client.
    --env TEXT                      Override environment variable with format:
                                    "name=value" Can be specified multiple
                                    times.
    --log-level [critical|error|warning|info|debug]
                                    Set logging level.
    --help                          Show this message and exit.

## Running examples

The `test-client/examples/` directory contains example test 
configurations. The following guide uses the Echo
Agent from the `examples/echo-agent/` directory in this repo. Note
that all commands in this example are run with paths relative to the 
root level of this repository.

  1. Start the echo agent using the workflow server 
  manager.

  ```
  cd examples/echo-agent ; wfsm deploy --manifestPath deploy/echo-agent.json --envFilePath deploy/echo_agent_example.yaml
  ```

  1. Configure the test variables to match the server
  deployment. These can be stored in a `.env` file or
  supplied on the command line. The "WORKFLOW_SERVER_" values 
  will need to be taken from the output of workflow-server in the 
  previous step.

  ```
  cat test-client/.env 
  ECHO_AGENT_API_KEY='{"x-api-key": "WORKFLOW_SERVER_API_KEY"}'
  ECHO_AGENT_ENDPOINT='WORKFLOW_SERVER_ENDPOINT'
  ECHO_AGENT_AGENT_ID="WORKFLOW_SERVER_AGENT_ID"
  ```

  1. Run the test async client from the CLI on the stateless API set.

  ```
  cd test-client ; poetry run cli --async ./examples/echo_agent_stateless.yaml
  ```

  1. Run the test sync client from the CLI on the stateful API set.

  ```
  cd test-client ; poetry run cli ./examples/echo_agent_stateful.yaml
  ```

## Test configuration file layout

The configuration file has two sections: metadata and operations

### Test metadata

The test metadata allows you to set the api client configuration:

  * client_config: an agntcy_acp.ApiClientConfiguration object
  * env_prefix: a string to get values from corresponding environment 
  variables where the names are prefix + parameter name.

    For example, with env_prefix="TEST_", the test-client would look
    for the agent endpoint in "TEST_ENDPOINT".


### Test operations

This is a list of operations that are executed in order. Each
operation is defined by the endpoint ID from the ACP OpenAPI 
specification and the necessary arguments.

The YAML is evaluated as a [Jinja template](https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/stable/) with the following render
context:

  * env: the environment variables of the CLI process
  * results: a list of the results of previous operations

For example, the following operation will create a run when the
environment is correctly specified:

```yaml
  - operation_id: create_stateless_run
    test_input:
      run_create_stateless:
        type: agntcy_acp.models.RunCreateStateless
        arguments:
          agent_id: "{{ env.ECHO_AGENT_AGENT_ID }}"
          input:
            echo_input:
              messages:
                - type: human
                  content: "What is up, Dude?"
          config:
            configurable:
              to_upper: true
    output_at_least:
      status: pending
```

If the next run wants to use the run_id produced by this create operation,
it can use the results context:

```yaml
  - operation_id: get_stateless_run
    test_input:
      run_id:
        type: str
        value: "{{ results[-1].run_id }}"
    output_at_least:
      status: success
```

Success is considered if the API call does not have an exception, and if 
the output match is specified and met. The currently supported matches are:

  * output_at_least: the result object should contain at least the properties
  and values specified. Additional properties in the result are ignored, but
  missing properties are considered an error.
  * output_exact: the result object should match exactly as specified. Note
  that datetime objects are ignored so that for example, the `created_at` field
  of the `Run` reponse object is ignore.

Note that the objects must match the structure of the models in agntcy_acp.models
so that for example, you should provide the `actual_instance` property of the
`RunResult` object or any Union objects to compare the actual data and not the
internal model properties generated by the typing.
